# rsign2

A Rust implementation of [Minisign](https://jedisct1.github.io/minisign/).

All signatures produced by rsign can be verified with minisign including trusted comments.

And minisign is able to sign files with keys generated by rsign.

In Rust, signatures can also be verified with the [minisign-verify](https://docs.rs/minisign-verify) crate.

rsign2 is a maintained fork of [rsign](https://docs.rs/crate/rsign/), originally written by Daniel Rangel.

Main differences with rsign:

- rsign2 is written in pure Rust.
- rsign2 has way less dependencies.
- rsign2 includes bug fixes and improvements.
- rsign2 tries to be usable as a library, not just as a command-line tool.
- rsign2 supports WebAssembly.

## API documentation

rsign2 is only a command-line interface. It relies on the Minisign crate, that can be embedded in any application:

[API documentation on docs.rs](https://docs.rs/minisign)

## Usage

```sh
rsign generate
```

Generates a new key pair. The public key is printed in the screen and stored in `rsign.pub` by default. The secret key will be written at `~/.rsign/rsign.key`. You can change the default paths with `-p` and `-s` respectively.

```sh
rsign sign myfile.txt
```

Sign `myfile.txt` with your secret key. You can add a signed trusted comment with:

```sh
rsign sign myfile.txt -t "my trusted comment"
```

If you are signing files larger than 1Gb you must use `-H` to first hash the file and sign the hash after that:

```sh
rsign sign mylargefile.bin -H
```

And to verify the signature with a given public key you can use:

```sh
rsign verify myfile.txt -p rsign.pub
```

Or if you have saved the signature file with a custom name other than `myfile.txt.minisig` and want to use a public key string you can use:

```sh
rsign verify myfile.txt -P [PUBLIC KEY STRING] -x mysignature.file
```

You can find more information using the help subcommand as in:

```text
rsign help [SUBCOMMAND]

USAGE:
    rsign [SUBCOMMAND]

FLAGS:
    -h, --help       Prints help information
    -V, --version    Prints version information

SUBCOMMANDS:
    generate    Generate public and private keys
    help        Prints this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
    sign        Sign a file with a given private key
    verify      Verify a signed file with a given public key
```
